          1
Name - Grokking Algorithms
Author - Aditya Y. Bhargava
Originally Published - 2015
Description - 
Grokking Algorithms is a friendly take on this core computer science topic.
In it, you'll learn how to apply common algorithms to the practical programming problems you face every day.
You'll start with tasks like sorting and searching.
As you build up your skills, you'll tackle more complex problems like data compression and artificial intelligence.
Each carefully presented example includes helpful diagrams and fully annotated code samples in Python.
By the end of this book, you will have mastered widely applicable algorithms as well as how and when to use them.




          2
Name - The self-taught programmer
Author - Cory Althoff
Originally Published - 2017
Description - 
This book is not just about learning to program; although you will learn to code.
If you want to program professionally, it is not enough to learn to code; that is why, in addition to helping you learn to program.
This book also cover the rest of the things you need to know to program professionally that classes and books don't teach you.
"The Self-taught Programmer" is a roadmap, a guide to take you from writing your first Python program, to passing your first technical interview




          3
Name - Don't Make Me Think, Revisited: A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability
Author - Steve Krug
Originally Published - 2014
Description - 
Since Don’t Make Me Think was first published in 2000, hundreds of thousands of Web designers and developers have relied on usability
guru Steve Krug’s guide to help them understand the principles of intuitive navigation and information design. Witty, commonsensical,
and eminently practical, it’s one of the best-loved and most recommended books on the subject. Now Steve returns with fresh perspective
to reexamine the principles that made Don’t Make Me Think a classic–with updated examples and a new chapter on mobile usability.
And it’s still short, profusely illustrated…and best of all–fun to read. If you’ve read it before,
you’ll rediscover what made Don’t Make Me Think so essential to Web designers and developers around the world. If you’ve never read it,
you’ll see why so many people have said it should be required reading for anyone working on Web sites





          4
Name - Problems on Array: For Interviews and Competitive Programming
Author - Aditya Chatterjee, Ue Kiao, Tushti
Originally Published - 2021
Description - 
This book "Problems on Array: For Interviews and Competitive Programming" is a deep dive into Array Data Structure,
important algorithms and Practice problems on Array





          5
Name - Pointers and Arrays
Author - Abhishek Dayal
Originally Published - 2014
Description - A wonderful book to aid those newcomers in the understanding of pointers and arrays.
This book includes 10 chapters. This book Includes - What is a pointer?
Pointer types, Array Pointers, Strings Pointers and Structures, Arrays of Strings, Multi-Dimensional Arrays, Pointers to Arrays, Dynamic Allocation of Memory




          6
Name - Clean Code
Author - Robert C. Martin
Originally Published - 2008
Description - Clean Codeis divided into three parts. The first describes the principles, patterns, and practices of writing clean code.
The second part consists of several case studies of increasing complexity. 
Each case study is an exercise in cleaning up code―of transforming a code base that has some problems into one that is sound and efficient. 
The third part is the payoff: a single chapter containing a list of heuristics and “smells” gathered while creating the case studies. 
The result is a knowledge base that describes the way we think when we write, read, and clean code.





          7
Name - Fluent Python
Author - Luciano Ramalho
Originally Published - 2015
Description - Python’s simplicity lets you become productive quickly, but this often means you aren’t using everything it has to offer.
With this hands-on guide, you’ll learn how to write effective, idiomatic Python code by leveraging its best—and possibly most neglected—features.
Author Luciano Ramalho takes you through Python’s core language features and libraries,
and shows you how to make your code shorter, faster,and more readable at the same time.
Many experienced programmers try to bend Python to fit patterns they learned from other languages, and never discover Python features outside of their experience.
With this book, those Python programmers will thoroughly learn how to become proficient in Python 3.
This book covers:Python data model: understand how special methods are the key to the consistent behavior of objects
Data structures: take full advantage of built-in types, and understand the text vs bytes duality in the Unicode age
Functions as objects: view Python functions as first-class objects, and understand how this affects popular design patterns
Object-oriented idioms: build classes by learning about references, mutability, interfaces, operator overloading, and multiple inheritance
Control flow: leverage context managers, generators, coroutines, and concurrency with the concurrent.futures and asyncio packages 
Metaprogramming: understand how properties, attribute descriptors, class decorators, and metaclasses work







          8
Name - The Phoenix Project
Author - Gene Kim 
Originally Published - 2018
Description - a must-read for any experienced developer who wants to learn DevOps and Automation.
The book is written in a novel style and teaches the story of an IT manager who tries to manage
the technology of a company that is falling behind its competition.
The book is very easy to go through and teaches you how having an appetite for automation and implications can work wonders. 
